.TH myproxy-get-trustroots 1 "2009-03-16" "Globus" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-get-trustroots \- fetch trustroots from a myproxy-server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
command retrieves the trusted certificates from the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
and stores them
in the location specified by the
.B X509_CERT_DIR
environment variable if set or
.I /etc/grid-security/certificates
if running as root or
.I ~/.globus/certificates
if running as non-root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u, --usage
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Displays version information and exits.
.TP
.BI -s " hostname, " --pshost " hostname"
Specifies the hostname(s) of the myproxy-server(s).  
Multiple hostnames may be specified in a comma-separated list.
This option is required if the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable is not defined.  If specified, this option
overrides the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable.
.TP
.BI -p " port, " --psport " port"
Specifies the TCP port number of the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
Default: 7512
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Only write output messages on error.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
Specifies the hostname(s) where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -s
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_PORT
Specifies the port where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -p
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_DN
Specifies the distinguished name (DN) of the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
All MyProxy client programs authenticate the server's identity.
By default, MyProxy servers run with host credentials, so the MyProxy
client programs expect the server to have a distinguished name of the
form "host/<fqhn>" or "myproxy/<fqhn>"
(where <fqhn> is the fully-qualified hostname of
the server).  If the server is running with some other DN, you can set
this environment variable to tell the MyProxy clients to accept the
alternative DN.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_TCP_PORT_RANGE
Specifies a range of valid port numbers 
in the form "min,max"
for the client side of the network connection to the server.
By default, the client will bind to any available port.
Use this environment variable to restrict the ports used to
a range allowed by your firewall.
If unset, MyProxy will follow the setting of the
.B GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE
environment variable.
.TP
.B X509_USER_CERT
Specifies a non-standard location for the certificate to be used for
authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_USER_KEY
Specifies a non-standard location for the private key to be used for
authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
Specifies a non-standard location for the proxy credential to be used
for authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_CERT_DIR
Specifies a non-standard location for the CA certificates directory.
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Baker,
Jim Basney,
Shiva Shankar Chetan,
Patrick Duda,
Terry Fleury,
Jarek Gawor,
Monte Goode,
Daniel Kouril,
Zhenmin Li,
Neill Miller,
Jason Novotny,
Miroslav Ruda,
Benjamin Temko,
and Von Welch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
