.TH myproxy-admin-change-pass 8 "2005-6-8" "NCSA" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-admin-change-pass \- change credential passphrase
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-admin-change-pass
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-admin-change-pass
command changes the passphrase used to encrypt a credential
in the MyProxy repository.
The command first prompts for the current passphrase for the
credential, then prompts twice for the new passphrase.
If an empty passphrase is given, the credential will not be
encrypted.
It accesses the repository directly and must be run on the machine
where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is installed from the account that owns the repository.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.BI -s " dir"
Specifies the location of the credential storage directory.
The directory must be accessible only by the user running the 
.B myproxy-server
process for security reasons.
Default: /var/myproxy or
$GLOBUS_LOCATION/var/myproxy
.TP
.BI -l " username"
Specifies the MyProxy account under which the credential should be
stored.
.TP
.BI -k " name"
Specifies the credential name.
.TP
.B -S, --stdin_pass
By default, the command prompts for a passphrase and reads the
passphrase from the active tty.  When running the command
non-interactively, there may be no associated tty.  Specifying this
option tells the command to read passphrases from standard input
without prompts or confirmation.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 on success, >0 on error
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Baker,
Jim Basney,
Shiva Shankar Chetan,
Patrick Duda,
Jarek Gawor,
Monte Goode,
Daniel Kouril,
Zhenmin Li,
Jason Novotny,
Miroslav Ruda,
Benjamin Temko,
and Von Welch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
