.TH myproxy-server.config 5 "2014-07-12" "MyProxy" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-server.config \- myproxy-server configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-server.config
file sets the policy for the 
.BR myproxy-server (8),
specifying what credentials may be stored in the server's
repository, who is authorized to retrieve credentials,
and other configurable server behaviors.
By default, the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
looks for this file in
.I /etc/myproxy-server.config
and if it is not found there, it looks in
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/etc/myproxy-server.config .
A template is provided at
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-server.config .
The
.B myproxy-server -c
option can be used to specify an alternative location.
.PP
The following lines set access control policies according to the
client's certificate subject distinguished name (DN).
Note that MyProxy uses non-standard regular expressions for
distinguished name (DN) matching. See the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
section below for details.
.TP
.BI accepted_credentials " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
Each of these lines allows any clients whose DNs match the
given limited regex to connect to the myproxy-server and store
credentials with it for future retrieval.  Any number of these
lines may appear.  For backwards compatibility, these lines
can also start with 
.B allowed_clients 
instead of
.BR accepted_credentials .
If no 
.B accepted_credentials
lines are specified, the server will not allow any clients to store
credentials.
.TP
.BI authorized_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
Each of these lines allows the server administrator to set
server-wide policies for credential retrievers. If the client
DN does not match the given limited regex, the client is not
allowed to retrieve credentials from the server.  
In addition to the server-wide policy, myproxy also
provides support for per-credential policy. The user can
specify the regex DN of the allowed retrievers of the
credential when uploading the credential (using
.BR myproxy-init (1)
or
.BR myproxy-store (1)).
The retrieval client
DN must also match the user specified regex. In order to
retrieve credentials the client also needs to know the name
and pass phrase provided by the client when the credentials
were stored. Any number of these lines may appear.  For
backwards compatibility, these lines can also start with
.B allowed_services 
instead of 
.BR authorized_retrievers .
If no 
.B authorized_retrievers
lines are specified, the server will not allow any clients to retrieve
credentials.
.TP
.BI default_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
Each of these lines allows the server administrator to set
server-wide default policies. The regex specifies the clients
who can access the credentials. The default retriever policy
is enforced if a per-credential policy is not specified on
upload (using
.BR myproxy-init (1)
or
.BR myproxy-store (1)).
In other words, the client can override this policy
for a credential on upload.  The per-credential policy is
enforced in addition to the server-wide policy specified by
the authorized_retrievers line (which clients can not
override).  Any number of these lines may be present.  For
backwards compatibility, if no 
.B default_retrievers 
line is
specified, the default policy is "*", which allows any client
to pass the per-credential policy check.  (The client must
still pass the 
.B authorized_retrievers 
check.)
.TP
.BI authorized_renewers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
Each of these lines allows the server administrator to set
server-wide policies for authorized renewers. If the client DN
does not match the given limited regex the client is not
allowed to renew the credentials previously stored by a
client.  
See
.B allow_self_authorization
below for a further restriction on this policy.
In addition to the server-wide policy, myproxy also
provides support for per-credential policy. The user can
specify the regex DN of the allowed renewers of the credential
on upload (using
.BR myproxy-init (1)).
The renewal client DN must match both this regex
and the user specified regex. In this case, the client must
also already have a credential with a DN matching the DN of
the credentials to be retrieved, to be used in a second
authorization step (see the
.B -a
options for
.BR myproxy-logon (1)
and
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1)).
.TP
.BI default_renewers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
Each of these lines allows the server administrator to set
server-wide default renewer policies. The regex specifies the
clients who can renew the credentials. The default renewer
policy is enforced if a per-credential policy is not specified
on upload (using
.BR myproxy-init (1)).
This is enforced in addition to the server-wide
policy specified by the 
.B authorized_renewers 
line. Any number
of these lines may appear.  For backwards compatibility, if no
default_renewers line is specified, the default policy is "*",
which allows any client to pass the per-credential policy
check.  (The client must still pass the 
.B authorized_renewers
check.)
.TP
.BI authorized_key_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
This policy controls who can retrieve credentials (certificates and
keys) directly from the repository using
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1).
Clients must also match the
.B authorized_retrievers
policy.
If no 
.B authorized_key_retrievers
lines are specified, the server will not allow any clients to retrieve
keys directly from the repository.
.TP
.BI default_key_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
This policy applies if a per-credential policy is not specified on
upload (using
.BR myproxy-init (1)
or
.BR myproxy-store (1)).
In other words, the client can override this policy
for a credential on upload.  The per-credential policy is
enforced in addition to the server-wide policy specified by
the authorized_key_retrievers line (which clients can not
override).  Any number of these lines may be present.  
If no 
.B default_key_retrievers 
line is
specified, the default policy is "*", which allows any client
to pass the per-credential policy check.  (The client must
still pass the 
.B authorized_key_retrievers 
check.)
.TP
.BI trusted_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
This policy controls who can retrieve credentials without further
authentication.
By default, clients that match 
.B authorized_retrievers 
must perform additional authentication (such as passphrase, PAM, or
SASL) to retrieve credentials.  However, authenticated clients that
match both
.B authorized_retrievers 
and
.B trusted_retrievers 
do not need to perform additional authentication,
unless the credentials are protected by a passphrase,
in which case the passphrase is still required.
Note: The
.BR myproxy-server (8)
will fail on startup or reconfig with an "unsafe policy" error if a policy of
.BI trusted_retrievers " \*(lq*\*(rq"
is specified without also specifying a restrictive
.B default_trusted_retrievers
policy, to avoid an unsafe policy that would release credentials to 
all clients without additional authentication.
See also
.B allow_self_authorization
below for a further restriction on this policy.
.TP
.BI default_trusted_retrievers " \*(lqDN regex\*(rq"
If a user doesn't set a trusted retrieval policy with the credential
on upload (via 
.B 'myproxy-init 
.BR -Z' ), 
the 
.BR myproxy-server (8)
will apply the following policy in addition to the 
.B trusted_retrievers 
policy.  If no 
.B default_trusted_retrievers 
policy is set, then only the 
.B trusted_retrievers 
policy is applied.
.PP
The following lines in the configuration file set other server
options.
.TP
.BI passphrase_policy_program " full-path-to-script"
This line specifies a program to run whenever a passphrase is set or
changed for implementing a local password policy.
The program is passed the new passphrase via stdin and is passed the
following arguments: username, distinguished name, credential name (if
any), per-credential retriever policy (if any), and per-credential
renewal policy (if any).
If the passphrase is acceptable, the program should exit with status 0.
Otherwise, it should exit with non-zero status, causing the operation
in progress (credential load, passphrase change) to fail with the error
message provided by the program's stdout.
Note: You must specify the full path to the external program.
$GLOBUS_LOCATION can't be used in the myproxy-server.config file.
A sample program is installed in
.I $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-passphrase-policy
but is not enabled by default.
.RS
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PD 0
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI cert_dir " full-path-to-certificates-directory"
Specifies the path to the CA certificates directory to be returned
to clients requesting trust roots (such as via the 
.BR myproxy-logon (1)
.B -T
option).
.TP
.BI max_proxy_lifetime " hours"
This line specifies a server-wide maximum lifetime for
retrieved proxy credentials.
By default, no server-wide maximum is enforced.
However, if this option is specified, the server will limit the
lifetime of any retrieved proxy credentials to the value given.
.TP
.BI max_cred_lifetime " hours"
This line specifies a server-wide maximum lifetime for
stored credentials.
By default, no server-wide maximum is enforced.
However, if this option is specified, the server will limit the
lifetime of any stored credentials to the value given.
.TP
.BI ignore_globus_limited_proxy_flag " boolean"
By default, MyProxy will respect the policy of "limited" proxy
certificates as follows.  If a client authenticates with a limited
proxy, the client should only be able to obtain another limited
proxy, not a full proxy or end entity certificate.  Thus, the
MyProxy CA will not accept limited proxies for authentication.
However, if this option is set to true, MyProxy will treat limited proxy
certificates as if they were full proxy certificates.
.TP
.BI allow_self_authorization " boolean"
By default, MyProxy will disallow 
.B trusted_retrievers
and
.B authorized_renewers
whose DN matches the identity of the stored credential,
so a proxy by itself can not be refreshed or renewed.
However, if this option is set to true, this restriction is lifted.
.TP
.BI syslog_ident " name"
You can optionally specify the string to be prepended to every message
written to the syslog.  If not specified, the name defaults to the the
program name, i.e. myproxy-server.
.TP
.BI syslog_facility " name"
By default, the myproxy-server will log to the syslog "daemon"
facility. With this option you can specify an alternate syslog
facility, such as "auth", "user", "security", or "local0".
The facility can also be specified numerically as with the 
.BR logger (1)
command.
.TP
.BI request_timeout " seconds"
Specifies the maximum time a 
.BR myproxy-server (8)
child process should spend servicing a client request before aborting.
By default, child processes will abort after 120 seconds.
A negative value will disable the timeout.
.TP
.BI request_size_limit " bytes"
Limits the amount of incoming application-level protocol data the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
will accept from clients, to avoid memory exhaustion
under heavy load. Specified in bytes.
Defaults to 1MB (1048576 bytes).
A zero or negative value disables the limit.
.TP
.BI proxy_extfile " full-path-to-extension-file"
Optionally specifies the full path to a file containing an OpenSSL
formatted set of certificate extensions to include in all 
proxy certificates issued from the MyProxy repository (analogous to
.B certificate_extfile
for the CA module).
.TP
.BI proxy_extapp " full-path-to-extension-callout-program"
This is the call-out version of proxy_extfile.  It optionally
specifies the full path to a call-out program for specifying
proxy certificate extensions.  It will be passed the authenticated
username and the proxy credential location as the two command arguments.
On success, it should
write the OpenSSL formatted set of certificate extensions to stdout
and exit with zero status.  On error, it should write to stderr and
exit with nonzero status.
Either 
.B proxy_extfile
or
.B proxy_extapp
can be specified but not both.
.RS
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PD 0
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI voms_userconf " full-path-to-voms-configuration-file"
Optionally specifies the full path to the VOMS configuration file
containing VOMS server information. It is usually specified in
the environmental variable VOMS_USERCONF.
.TP
.BI allow_voms_attribute_requests " boolean"
If this parameter is set to true and a GET request includes VONAME
and (optionally) VOMSES parameters, call-out to VOMS to add the
requested attributes to the issued certificate. Requires linking
with VOMS libraries. By default, VONAME and VOMSES parameters in
requests will be ignored unless this parameter is set to true.
.PP
The MyProxy server can be optionally configured for authentication
based on Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) and/or
the Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL).
Kerberos is one of the supported SASL authentication methods.
The following options control the use of PAM and SASL.
.TP
.BI pam " option"
This line
governs the use of PAM to check passphrases.
MyProxy will attempt to
authenticate via PAM, with the supplied username and passphrase.
Note that PAM will need to be configured externally for the
application "myproxy" (usually in /etc/pam.d/), or for the
application named by pam_id, below.
Accepted values:
.RS
.TP
.B required
PAM password authentication is required under all conditions.  If the
credential is unencrypted (that is, it has no passphrase), a PAM
password check is still required for authentication.  If the
credential is encrypted, its passphrase must match the PAM password.
.TP
.B sufficient
The user's passphrase may match either the credential passphrase or,
if the credential is unencrypted, the PAM passphrase.  If the
credential is encrypted, then the PAM password is not relevant.
.TP
.BR disabled " (default)"
PAM is not used to check passphrases.
.RE
.TP
.BI pam_id " string"
The name that myproxy uses to identify itself to PAM.  Default is
"myproxy".
For example, on most Unix-like systems, if pam_id is set to "login",
MyProxy will authenticate against the system's own usernames and
passwords.
.TP
.BI sasl " option"
This line
governs the use of SASL authentication.
Accepted values:
.RS
.TP
.B required
SASL authentication is required for retrieving credentials.
.TP
.B sufficient
SASL authentication is sufficient for retrieving credentials, but
other authentication methods may be used instead.
.TP
.BR disabled " (default)"
SASL authentication isn't used.
.RE
.TP
.BI sasl_mech " mechanism"
Forces the use of a single SASL mechanism, overriding the SASL
configuration file. (Typically not required.)
.TP
.BI sasl_serverFQDN " hostname"
Configures the SASL server fully-qualified domain name for
multi-homed servers. (Typically not required.)
.TP
.BI sasl_user_realm " realm"
Configures the SASL user realm. (Typically not required.)
.PP
The MyProxy server can also be configured to act as a Certificate
Authority (CA) to issue credentials to clients.  The following
parameters enable and configure the CA functionality.
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_cert " full-path-to-certificate"
This line specifies the full path to the issuer certificate to
optionally configure the myproxy-server to act as an online
certificate authority. 
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_key " full-path-to-key"
When specifying 
.B certificate_issuer_cert 
above, you must also give the name of the CA private key for 
signing certificates.  This is
normally path to a CA private key in PEM format, but if you
are using an OpenSSL engine (see
.B certificate_openssl_engine_id
) then it can be the key name.
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_key_passphrase " \*(lqpassphrase\*(rq"
If the 
.B certificate_issuer_key 
is encrypted, give the passphrase here.
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_subca_certfile " full-path-to-subca-certificate-file"
If you would like an intermediate/sub-CA certificate chain to be sent
along with the EEC (End Entity Certificate) generated using a local
intermediate/sub-CA, specify the file that contains those certificates in
PEM format. This is meant to aid scenarios where the CA used is an
intermediate CA (i.e. not a root CA) and the client may not have the
intermediate CA(s) in its trust store. The client will write out the
chain into the same file as the EEC, following the EEC.
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_hashalg " algorithm"
Specifies the hash algorithm to use when signing end-entity
certificates. 
Defaults to "sha256". 
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_email_domain " \*(lqdomain\*(rq"
If set, specifies the domain part of the X509v3 Subject Alternative
Name email address included in issued certificates.
.PP
.BI certificate_openssl_engine_id " engineId"
.PP
.BI certificate_openssl_engine_pre " pre-initialization-commands"
.TP
.BI certificate_openssl_engine_post " post-initialization-commands"
These commands can be used to allow any OpenSSL engine to be used
with MyProxy.  This enables the use of hardware tokens and signing 
modules to sign certificates.  Given the parameters of an OpenSSL 
"engine" command, the first argument, the identity of the engine
becomes the argument to
.B certificate_openssl_engine_id 
and -pre commands are listed in order using 
.B certificate_openssl_engine_pre
and -post commands are listed in order using
.B certificate_openssl_engine_post.
For example the command-line:
.IP 
   openssl engine dynamic -pre SO_PATH:/usr/lib/engines/engine_pkcs11.so 
-pre ID:pkcs11 -pre LIST_ADD:1 -pre LOAD 
-pre MODULE_PATH:/usr/lib/opensc-pksc11.so
.IP
becomes:
.IP
   certificate_openssl_engine_id "dynamic"
.IP 
   certificate_openssl_engine_pre 
"SO_PATH:/usr/lib/engines/engine_pkcs11.so"
"ID:pkcs11" "LIST_ADD:1" "LOAD"
"MODULE_PATH:/usr/lib/opensc-pksc11.so"
.IP
Please note that any shared library engines loaded through the
"dynamic" engine MUST be compiled againt the correct version of
OpenSSL.  The Globus toolkit has its own installation and can
be found by running $GLOBUS_LOCATION/bin/openssl version.
.TP
.BI certificate_openssl_engine_lockfile " full-path-to-file"
If your hardware token or HSM is unable to handle simultaneous
operations, provide a path to a lockfile for synchronizing
operations to the engine device.  The myproxy-server will create the
file if it does not already exist.
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_program " full-path-to-script"
This line specifies the path to a program to issue certificates for
authenticated clients that don't have credentials stored.  
This optionally
configures the myproxy-server to act as an online certificate
authority, allowing programmatic control over the certificate
issuance process.  
You can either specify 
.B certificate_issuer_cert
or 
.BR certificate_issuer_program .  
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI certificate_serialfile " full-path-to-serial-file"
Specifies the path to a file to store the serial number counter for
issued certificates.  Defaults to /var/lib/myproxy/serial.
.TP
.BI certificate_serial_skip " increment"
Specifies the number to add to the serial number each time a certificate is
issued. Use this to stagger serial numbers across multiple CA
instances to avoid serial number clashes. Defaults to 1.
.TP
.BI certificate_out_dir " full-path-to-putput-directory"
Specifies the path to a directory where new certificates will be archived.
.TP
.BI max_cert_lifetime " hours"
Specifies the maximum lifetime (in hours) for certificates issued by
the CA module.  Defaults to 12 hours.
.TP
.BI min_keylen " bits"
Specifies the minimum RSA key length (in bits)
for certificates issued by the CA module.
.TP
.BI certificate_extfile " full-path-to-extension-file"
Optionally specifies the full path to a file containing an OpenSSL
formatted set of certificate extensions to include in all issued
certificates.  For example:
.RS
.PD 0
   keyUsage=digitalSignature,keyEncipherment,dataEncipherment
.PP
   subjectKeyIdentifier=hash
.PP
   authorityKeyIdentifier=keyid,issuer:always
.PP
   crlDistributionPoints=URI:http://ca.ncsa.uiuc.edu/4a6cd8b1.r0
.PP
   basicConstraints=CA:FALSE
.PD
.RE
.RS
If not set, the MyProxy CA will include a basic set of extensions in
issued certificates.
.RE
.TP
.BI certificate_extapp " full-path-to-extension-callout-program"
This is the call-out version of certificate_extfile.  It optionally
specifies the full path to a call-out program for specifying
certificate extensions.  It will be passed the authenticated
username as the single command argument.  On success, it should
write the OpenSSL formatted set of certificate extensions to stdout
and exit with zero status.  On error, it should write to stderr and
exit with nonzero status.
Either 
.B certificate_extfile
or
.B certificate_extapp
can be specified but not both.
.RS
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PD 0
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI certificate_mapfile " full-path-to-mapfile"
When specifying certificate_issuer_cert above, you can map account names
to certificate subject distinguished names for the issued
certificates using this mapfile, which has the same format as used
by other Globus Toolkit services.
By default, /etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile is used.
The Globus Toolkit
.B grid-mapfile-add-entry
and
.B grid-mapfile-delete-entry
commands can be used to manage the grid-mapfile.
.TP
.BI certificate_mapapp " full-path-to-mapapp"
When specifying certificate_issuer_cert above, you can map account names
to certificate subject distinguished names for the issued
certificates using this call-out.  It will be passed the
authenticated username as the single command argument.  On success,
it should write the distinguished name 
in OpenSSL one line format
(for example,
"/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=Jim Basney")
to stdout and exit with zero
status.  On error, it should write to stderr and exit with nonzero
status.  If it is not defined, then mapfile lookup will be executed
instead (see certificate_mapfile above).
An example is installed in
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-certificate-mapapp .
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI certificate_request_checker " full-path-to-callout-program"
This CA call-out can be used to perform checks on incoming
certificate requests. It will be passed the certificate request in
PEM format on stdin. If it returns a nonzero exit status, the CA
will abort without signing the request.  When returning a nonzero
exit status, the callout should indicate the problem on stderr.
An example is installed in
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-certreq-checker .
.TP
.BI certificate_issuer_checker " full-path-to-callout-program"
This CA call-out can be used to perform checks on issued
certificates before the certificate is returned to the client.  It
will be passed the certificate in PEM format on stdin. If it returns
a nonzero exit status, the CA will abort without returning the
signed certificate to the client. When returning a nonzero exit
status, the callout should indicate the problem on stderr.
An example is installed in
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-cert-checker .
.PP
If OpenLDAP support is built-in to the
.BR myproxy-server (8),
the following parameters can be used to configure the CA module to map
account names to certificate subject distinguished names via LDAP.
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_server " \*(lqldap://localhost:389/\*(rq"
This parameter specifies the URI to the LDAP server to use for
username to DN resolution in the CA module.  Both ldap:// and ldaps://
protocols are supported.  A port number may optionally be specified as
well.  Defining this directive is the "trigger" that causes the name
resolution module to use LDAP querying.  If it is not defined, then
mapfile lookup will be executed instead (see 
.B certificate_mapfile
above).
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_uid_attribute " \*(lquid\*(rq"
The name of the record attribute that maps to the MyProxy username.
Required for LDAP username to DN resolution.
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_searchbase " \*(lqou=people,dc=bullwinkle,dc=lbl,dc=gov\*(rq"
The DN of the region of the ldap database to be searched.
Required for LDAP username to DN resolution.
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_dn_attribute " \*(lqsubjectDN\*(rq"
If this directive is set, the LDAP resolver will pull the DN from
the specified attribute in the returned record.  If it is not set,
the default is to use the DN of the record itself.
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_connect_dn " \*(lqcn=MyProxy,ou=ldapusers,dc=lbl,dc=gov\*(rq"
DN for LDAP basic authentication (optional).
.TP
.BI ca_ldap_connect_passphrase " \*(lqpassphrase\*(rq"
Passphrase for LDAP basic authentication (optional).
.PP
The following parameters control server replication with the
.BR myproxy-replicate (1)
utility.
.TP
.BI slave_servers " server:port;"
This value is for use with the 
.BR myproxy-replicate (1)
utility.  This tag provides a list of servers that will be used as secondary
repositories for the MyProxy database.  Each server should be seperated by
a ";".  Also, a port may be provided if the slave server is using a port
other then the default.  The server name maybe a recognized DNS or an IP
address.
.PP
The following parameters control Pubcookie (http://www.pubcookie.org)
authentication.
.TP
.BI pubcookie_granting_cert " full-path-to-pem-file"
Sets the full path to the PEM-encoded Pubcookie granting
certificate for verifying signatures on Pubcookie granting cookies.
Setting this parameter enables Pubcookie support.
.TP
.BI pubcookie_app_server_key " full-path-to-key-file"
Sets the full path to the 2048 byte application server key (see
Pubcookie's Apache directive PubcookieCryptKeyfile).  This parameter
is optional; if omitted, cookie decryption will be disabled, and
MyProxy will only accept plaintext cookies, although it will still
verify their signatures with
.B pubcookie_granting_cert
(see above).
.PP
The following parameters are used primarily when utilizing MyProxy as a
delegation service for web portals.
.TP
.BI accepted_credentials_mapfile " full-path-to-mapfile"
This parameter points to a grid-mapfile, which is possibly different from
other mapfiles above. When specified, this mapfile is utilized during
puts/stores (e.g. with 
.BR myproxy-init (1)
and
.BR myproxy-store (1)).
A credential is authorized to be put/stored only under the username
specified in the mapfile.  This prevents storing a user's credential under a
different username.  Note that the credential checked for the presence of a
SubjectDN/Username entry in the mapfile is the credential utilized to secure
the connection between client and server, NOT the actual credential being
stored.  As the credential which secures the TLS connection is typically the
same as the credential being stored, this should not be a major issue.
The Globus Toolkit
.B grid-mapfile-add-entry
and
.B grid-mapfile-delete-entry
commands can be used to manage the grid-mapfile.
.TP
.BI accepted_credentials_mapapp " full-path-to-mapapp"
As an alternative to the accepted_credentials_mapfile option above, you can
specify a call-out which is passed two parameters: a certificate subject
distinguished name and a username (in that order).  In essence, the call-out
performs a lookup in a 'virtual' accepted_credentials_mapfile.  If the
SubjectDN/Username line would appear in such a mapfile, then the call-out
should exit with zero status indicating that a credential with the given
SubjectDN is allowed to be stored under the given Username.  Otherwise, the
call-out should exit with nonzero status indicating error.
An example is installed in
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-accepted-credentials-mapapp .
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.PP
.B Be sure to follow secure coding practices for this call-out:
.PP
- Don't allow input to overflow fixed-size buffers.
.PP
- Don't pass unchecked input to a shell command.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI check_multiple_credentials " boolean"
Typically when a credential is accessed by a client, the server checks only
one credential for possible access authorization, even if there are multiple
credentials stored under the given username.  If this option is set to
"true" AND the client does not specify a credential name for a MyProxy
GET operation (i.e., from 
.BR myproxy-logon (1)),
then the server will check multiple credentials with the given
username.  If a credential is found to be authorized for client access, then
that one will be used during processing.  The default value for this option
is "false".
.PP
The following parameters enable OCSP status checking of stored
credentials in the 
.BR myproxy-server (8)
repository, to avoid use of expired credentials.
.TP
.BI ocsp_policy " policy"
Controls the policy for checking certificate validity via OCSP
before credentials may be delegated.  
Currently, only the status of the end entity certificate is checked
via OCSP (and not any proxy certificates or CA certificates).
OCSP will not be used unless ocsp_responder_url and/or ocsp_policy
are set.
Supported policies are:
  "aia" - use OCSP responder in certificate AIA extension, if
          present; otherwise use ocsp_responder_url, if set
.TP
.BI ocsp_responder_url " URL"
Specifies the URL of an OCSP responder to use to check the validity
of credentials stored in the myproxy-server repository before
they may be delegated, so that revoked credentials can not be
retrieved and used where their revocation status may not be checked.
Currently, only the status of the end entity certificate is checked
via OCSP (and not any proxy certificates or CA certificates).
In any case, CRL checks are always performed.
Both http and https urls are supported.
OCSP will not be used unless ocsp_responder_url and/or ocsp_policy
are set.
.TP
.BI ocsp_responder_cert " path"
Specifies the path to the certificate of a trusted OCSP responder.
This is needed if the OCSP responder must be explicity trusted in
cases where standard path validation fails for the OCSP responder's
certificate.
.PP
The following parameters control Usage Metrics reporting by the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.BI disable_usage_stats " value"
By default Usage Metrics reporting is enabled. Specifying
"true", "enabled", "yes", "on" or "1" for
.I value
will disable Usage Metrics reporting. Setting the GLOBUS_USAGE_OPTOUT environment
variable to "1" will also disable the reporting of usage metrics. Disabling
reporting of usage metrics will cause the
.B usage_stats_target
setting to be ignored.
.TP
.BI usage_stats_target " target_list"
This option can be used to specify the target collector hosts to which
usage metrics should be reported. This setting will be ignored if
.B disable_usage_stats
is enabled.
Multiple targets can be specified in
.I target_list
separated by comma(s). Each target specification is of the format
.I host:port[!tags]
. The 
.I tags
control what data elements are reported. The following list
specifies the tags for the corresponding data elements.
.RS
.PD 0
V - Major Version number of MyProxy server
.PP
v - Minor Version number of MyProxy server
.PP
t - Task Code (0=Get, 1=Put, 2=Info, 3=Destroy, 4=ChangeCredPassphrase, 5=StoreEndEntCred, 6=RetrEndEntCred, 7=GetTrustRoots)
.PP
r - Task Return Code.
.PP
l - Requested Lifetime for Credential.
.PP
L - Actual Lifetime for Credential.
.PP
B - Informational Bit mask to be interpreted left to right as follows:
       PAM used
       SASL used
       Credential passphrase check used
       Trusted Retriever (Certificate-based authentication)
       Certificate Authorization method used (Trusted Renewer)
       Pubcookie was used
       Trustroots requested
       Trustroots delivered
.PP
I - Client IP address
.PP
u - Username
.PP
U - User DN
.PD

In addition to the above selected information, the following data are reported to
ALL the specified/default target collectors. There's no way to exclude these from
being reported other than by disabling the reporting of usage metrics:

.PD 0
.PP
Component code - 11 for MyProxy
.PP
Component Data Format version - 0 currently
.PP
IP Address of Reporting Server
.PP
Timestamp
.PP
Hostname

If no tags are specified in a host spec, or the special string "default" is specified,
the tags VvtrlLB are assumed. A site could choose to allow a different set of data to
be reported by specifying a different tag set. The last 3 tags I, u and U above are
more meant for a local collector that a site might like to deploy since they could be
construed as private information. The special string "all" denotes all tags.

By default, Usage Metrics reporting is disabled.
This can be made explicit by specifying "default" (all by itself) for the target
specification as in:

usage_stats_target "default"

.SH REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
For matching distinguished names (DNs) in access control policies,
MyProxy uses POSIX Extended Regular Expressions (see
.BR re_format (7)),
with custom processing of '*', '?', and '.' metacharacters
to simulate Unix shell style wildcard processing
(for backward compatibility and other historical reasons).
MyProxy's custom regular expressions are converted to POSIX EREs
according to the following rules:

  [ MyProxy regex ] => [ POSIX ERE ]
  ----------------------------------
         '*'        =>      '.*'
         '?'        =>      '.'
         '.'        =>      '\\.'
         '\\*'       =>      '*'
         '\\?'       =>      '?'
         '\\.'       =>      '.'

Additionally, MyProxy wraps all regular expressions inside '^(' and ')$'
to require full DN matching.

Be aware that parentheses are metacharacters according to POSIX,
so escaping is required for literal matching. For example:

  "*/CN=Jim Basney \\(admin\\)"

The following examples illustrate how MyProxy regular expressions are
converted to POSIX EREs:

     [ MyProxy regex ]     =>    [ POSIX ERE ]
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  "*/CN=Jim Basney"        => "^(.*/CN=Jim Basney)$"
  "*/CN=Test User ?"       => "^(.*/CN=Test User .)$"
  "*/CN=James A. Basney"   => "^(.*/CN=James A\\. Basney)$"
  "/O=Test/CN=[:alnum:]\\*" => "^(/O=Test/CN=[:alnum:]*)$"

  "*/CN=Jim Basney|*/CN=James Basney" =>
      "^(.*/CN=Jim Basney|.*/CN=James Basney)$"

.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
The following policy enables all credential repository features.
.PP
.PD 0
accepted_credentials       "*"
.PP
authorized_retrievers      "*"
.PP
default_retrievers         "*"
.PP
authorized_renewers        "*"
.PP
default_renewers           "none"
.PP
authorized_key_retrievers  "*"
.PP
default_key_retrievers     "none"
.PP
trusted_retrievers         "*"
.PP
default_trusted_retrievers "none"
.PP
cert_dir                   /etc/grid-security/certificates
.PD
.PP
The following enables CA functionality using an existing Globus Simple
CA configuration.
.PP
.PD 0
authorized_retrievers "*"
.PP
pam  "sufficient"
.PP
sasl "sufficient"
.PP
certificate_issuer_cert /home/globus/.globus/simpleCA/cacert.pem
.PP
certificate_issuer_key /home/globus/.globus/simpleCA/private/cakey.pem
.PP
certificate_issuer_key_passphrase "myproxy"
.PP
certificate_serialfile /home/globus/.globus/simpleCA/serial
.PP
certificate_mapfile /etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile
.PP
cert_dir /etc/grid-security/certificates
.PD
.PP
The following will cause usage metrics to be reported to the default target (only the
default tags) as well as a local collector (including the tags IuU):
.PP
usage_stats_target "usage-stats.cilogon.org:4810,localcollector.somedomain:4810!VvtrlLBIuU"
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/myproxy-server.config
Default location for the server configuration file.
.TP
.I $GLOBUS_LOCATION/etc/myproxy-server.config
Alternate location for the server configuration file.
A different location can be specified by using the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
.B -c
option.
.TP
.I $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-passphrase-policy
A sample program for evaluating passphrase quality for use with the
.I passphrase_policy_program 
option.
.TP
.I $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-certificate-mapapp
A sample 
.I certificate_mapapp
program for mapping account names to certificate subject distinguished
names.
.TP
.I $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-accepted-credentials-mapapp
A sample
.I accepted_credentials_mapapp
program for authorizing 
puts/stores (e.g. with 
.BR myproxy-init (1)
and
.BR myproxy-store (1)).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GLOBUS_LOCATION
Specifies the root of the MyProxy installation, used to find the
default location of the 
.I myproxy-server.config
file.
.SH AUTHORS
See 
.B http://myproxy.ncsa.uiuc.edu/about
for the list of MyProxy authors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-get-trustroots (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
