.TH gsincftpbatch 1 NcFTP Software
.SH NAME
gsincftpbatch - Batch FTP job processor daemon with support for RFC 2228
Security Extensions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B gsincftpbatch
\-d
.PP
.B gsincftpbatch
\-l
.PP
.B gsincftpbatch
\-D
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.RI "-d"
Begin background processing of FTP jobs in the current user's
$HOME/.gsincftp/spool directory.
This returns immediately, because a daemon process is spawned
and ran in the background.
.TP 8
\-l
Lists the contents of the user's job queue.
.TP 8
\-D
This is like \-d, except that the process does not become
a daemon.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
This program is responsible for processing background FTP requests.
It is normally only run by
.I gsincftp
and not manually by a human being, however you can run it to manually
process the FTP job queue.
.PP
The jobs are spool files written to a user's
$HOME/.gsincftp/spool directory and have a special format and file-naming
convention (which contains when the job is to be run).
.I gsincftp
runs this program when it needs to, but if the
.I gsincftpbatch
daemon dies unexpectedly the jobs that are left in the queue will
not be processed until another instance of
.I gsincftpbatch
is run.
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I gsincftpbatch
writes to its own log file, the 
$HOME/.gsincftp/batchlog file.
This file should be examined to determine if any
.I gsincftpbatch
processes are actively working on jobs.
.\"-------
.SH "CHANGES FROM STANDARD GSINCFTPBATCH"
.\"-------
This distribution uses the SSL GSSAPI bindings for authentication by
default, instead of the standard cleartext password handling.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (mgleason@ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR gsincftp (1),
.IR gsincftpput (1),
.IR gsincftpget (1).
