.TH ncftpbatch 1 NcFTP Software
.SH NAME
ncftpbatch - Batch FTP job processor daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-d
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-l
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-D
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.B "-d"
Begin background processing of FTP jobs in the current user's
$HOME/.ncftp/spool directory.
This returns immediately, because a daemon process is spawned
and ran in the background.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Lists the contents of the user's job queue.
.TP 8
.B \-D
This is like
.BR \-d ","
except that the process does not become a daemon.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
This program is responsible for processing background FTP requests.
It is normally only run by
.I ncftp
and not manually by a human being, however you can run it to manually
process the FTP job queue.
.PP
The jobs are spool files written to a user's
$HOME/.ncftp/spool directory and have a special format and file-naming
convention (which contains when the job is to be run).
.I ncftp
runs this program when it needs to, but if the
.I ncftpbatch
daemon dies unexpectedly the jobs that are left in the queue will
not be processed until another instance of
.I ncftpbatch
is run.
.PP
.I ncftpget
and
.I ncftpput
can also be used to submit jobs for batch processing, using
those utilities'
.B \-b
command-line flag.
If desired, you can also manually create the spool files
although this procedure is not documented here.
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpbatch
writes to its own log file, the 
$HOME/.ncftp/batchlog file.
This file should be examined to determine if any
.I ncftpbatch
processes are actively working on jobs.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (mgleason@ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ncftpput (1),
.IR ncftpget (1).
