.TH ncftpput 1 NcFTP Software
.SH NAME
ncftpput - Internet file transfer program for scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpput
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-host" "remote-directory" "local-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpput
-f
.I "login.cfg"
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-directory" "local-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpput
-c
.I "remote-host" "remote-path-name"
<
.I "stdin"
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.BI "-u " "XX"
Use username
.I XX
instead of anonymous.
.TP 8
.BI "-p " "XX"
Use password
.I XX
with the username.
.TP 8
.BI "-P " "XX"
Use port number
.I XX
instead of the default FTP service port (21).
.TP 8
.BI "-j " "XX"
Use account
.I XX
in supplement to the username and password (deprecated).
.TP 8
.BI "-d " "XX"
Use the file
.I XX
for debug logging.
.TP 8
.B -a
Use ASCII transfer type instead of binary.
.TP 8
.B -m
Attempt to make the remote destination directory
before copying.
.TP 8
.BI "-t " "XX"
Timeout after
.I XX
seconds.
.TP 8
.BI "-U " "XX"
Use value
.I XX
for the umask.
.TP 8
.BR "-v" "/" "-V"
Do (do not) use progress meters.
The default is to use progress meters if the output stream is a TTY.
.TP 8
.BI "-f " "XX"
Read the file
.I XX
for host, user, and password information.
.TP 8
.B -A
Append to remote files, instead of overwriting them.
.TP 8
.BI "-T " "XX"
Upload into temporary files prefixed by
.IR "XX" "."
.TP 8
.BI "-S " "XX"
Upload into temporary files suffixed by
.IR "XX" "."
.TP 8
.B -R
Recursive mode; copy whole directory trees.
.TP 8
.BI "-r " "XX"
Redial a maximum of 
.I XX
times until connected to the remote FTP server.
.TP 8
.BR "-z" "/" "-Z"
Do (do not) try to resume transfers.
The default is to
.I not
try to resume (\-Z).
.TP 8
.B -E
Use regular (PORT) data connections.
.TP 8
.B -F
Use passive (PASV) data connections.
The default is to use passive, but to fallback to
regular if the passive connection fails or times out.
.TP 8
.B -DD
Delete local file after successfully uploading it.
.TP 8
.B -y
Try using "SITE UTIME" to preserve timestamps on remote host.
Not many remote FTP servers support this, so it may not work.
.TP 8
.B -b
Run in background (by submitting a job to
.IR ncftpbatch ")."
.TP 8
.BI "-B " "XX"
Try setting the TCP/IP socket buffer size to
.I XX
bytes.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
The
purpose of
.I ncftpput
is to do file transfers from the command-line
without entering an interactive shell.
This lets you write shell scripts or other unattended
processes that can do FTP.
It is also useful for advanced users who
want to send files from the shell command line without
entering an interactive FTP program such as
.IR ncftp "."
.PP
By default the program tries to open the remote host
and login anonymously, but you can specify a username
and password information.
The
.B -u
option is used to specify the username to login as,
and the
.B -p
option is used to specify the password.
If you are running the program from the shell, you may
omit the
.B -p
option and the program will prompt you for the password.
.PP
Using the 
.B -u
and
.B -p
options are not recommended, because your account information
is exposed to anyone who can see your shell script or your
process information.  For example, someone using the
.I ps
program could see your password while the program runs.
.PP
You may use the
.B -f
option instead to specify a file with the account information.
However, this is still not secure because anyone who
has read access to the information file can see the
account information.
Nevertheless, if you choose to use the
.B -f
option the file should look something like this:
.RS
.sp
host sphygmomanometer.ncftp.com
.br
user gleason
.br
pass mypassword
.br
.sp
.RE
Don't forget to change the permissions on this file
so no one else can read them.
.PP
The
.B -d
option is very useful when you are trying to diagnose
why a file transfer is failing.
It prints out the
entire FTP conversation to the file you specify, so
you can get an idea of what went wrong.  
If you specify the special name
.I stdout
as the name of the debugging output file, the output
will instead print to the screen.
.PP
Using ASCII mode is helpful when the text format of your host
differs from that of the remote host.
For example, if you are sending a text file from
a UNIX system to a Windows-based host, you could use the
.B -a
flag which would use ASCII transfer mode so that the file
created on the Windows machine would be in its native text
format instead of the UNIX text format.
.PP
You can upload an entire directory tree of files by
using the
.B -R
flag.
Example:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpput -R pikachu.nintendo.co.jp /incoming /tmp/stuff
.br
.sp
.RE
This would create a /incoming/stuff hierarchy on
the remote host.
.PP
The
.B -T
and
.B -S
options are useful when you want to upload file
to the remote host, but you don't want to use
the destination pathname until the file is
complete.
Using these options, you will not destroy a
remote file by the same name until your file
is finished.
These options are also useful when a remote
process on the remote host polls a specific
filename, and you don't want that process to
see that file until you know the file is
finished sending.
Here is an example that uploads to the file
/pub/incoming/README, using the filename
/pub/incoming/README.tmp as a temporary
filename:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpput -S \.tmp bowser\.nintendo\.co\.jp /pub/incoming /a/README
.RE
.PP
A neat way to pipe the output from any local command into
a remote file is to use the
.B -c
option, which denotes that you're using
.I stdin
as input.
The following example shows how to make a backup and store
it on a remote machine:
.RS 4
.sp
$ tar cf / | ncftpput -c sonic\.sega\.co\.jp /usr/local/backup.tar
.RE
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpput
returns the following exit values:
.TP 8
0
Success.
.TP 8
1
Could not connect to remote host.
.TP 8
2
Could not connect to remote host - timed out.
.TP 8
3
Transfer failed.
.TP 8
4
Transfer failed - timed out.
.TP 8
5
Directory change failed.
.TP 8
6
Directory change failed - timed out.
.TP 8
7
Malformed URL.
.TP 8
8
Usage error.
.TP 8
9
Error in login configuration file.
.TP 8
10
Library initialization failed.
.TP 8
11
Session initialization failed.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (mgleason@ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftpget (1),
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ftp (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR tftp (1).
.PP
.IR "LibNcFTP" " (http://www.ncftp.com/libncftp/)."
