.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH ftpconversions 5 
.SH Name
ftpconversions \- ftpd conversions database
.SH Description
.NXR "conversions file" "format"
The conversions known by 
.BR ftpd(8)
and their attributes are stored in an ASCII file that
is structured as below.
Each line in the file provides a description for a single
.IR conversion.
Fields are separated by colons (:).
.PP
    %s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s
     1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8

    Field          Description
      1             strip prefix
      2             strip postfix
      3             addon prefix
      4             addon postfix
      5             external command
      6             types
      7             options
      8             description
.SH Known Problems
The conversions mechanism does not currently support the strip prefix
and addon prefix fields.
.SH Files
.PN FTPLIB/ftpconversions
.SH See Also
ftpd(8), ftpaccess(5)
