.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH ftphosts 5 
.SH Name
ftphosts \- ftpd individual user host access file
.SH Description
The ftphosts file is used to allow or deny access to certain
accounts from various hosts.
.SH Access Capabilities
.TP 0.5i
.B allow <username> <addrglob> [<addrglob> ...]
Only allow host(s) matching <addrglob> to log in as <username>.
.TP 0.5i
.B deny <username> <addrglob> [<addrglob> ...]
Always deny host(s) matching <addrglob> to log in as <username>.
.PP
A username of
.B anonymous
or
.B ftp
specifies the anonymous user.
.PP
The <addrglob> may be also be specified as address/cidr or address:netmask.  For example:
10.0.0.0/8 or 10.0.0.0:255.0.0.0
.SH Files
FTPLIB/ftphosts
.SH See Also
.BR ftpd(8) ,
.BR ftpaccess(5) ,
.BR ftplog(5) ,
.BR ftpconversions(5) ,
.BR ftpshut(8)
