.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH ftprestart 8
.SH Name
ftprestart \- restart previously shutdown ftp servers
.SH Syntax
.B ftprestart
[
.B \-V
]
.PP
The
.PN ftprestart
command
provides an automated way to restart previously shutdown ftp servers.
.PN ftprestart
is used when you are ready to re-enable your FTP server. It does the opposite of 
ftpshut and removes shutdown message files that were created by ftpshut. It will 
remove the system-wide shutdown message file as well as the shutdown message files 
in the anonymous ftp areas and any virtual ftp server areas. 
.PP
The
.B \-V
option causes the program to display copyright and version information, then
terminate.

.SH Sample Output
.PP
  ftprestart: /servers/some.domain/ftp/etc/shutmsg removed. 
  ftprestart: /servers/other.domain/ftp/etc/shutmsg removed. 
  ftprestart: /etc/shutmsg removed. 

.SH See Also
shutdown(1), ftpshut(8), ftpaccess(5)
