.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH ftpservers 5
.SH Name
ftpservers \- ftpd virtual hosting configuration specification file 

.SH Description

The ftpservers file is used to tell which set of virtual domain configuration 
files the 
.BR ftpd(8) 
server should use. When compiled with VIRTUAL support, wu-ftpd has the
ability to use separate configuration files for each virtual domain.

Currently, configuration files are placed into a separate virtual domain 
directory. The directory path and the IP address that is to use those 
configuration files is listed in the ftpservers file.  The actual 
configuration files put into the virtual domain directory MUST be 
named:
.PP

    ftpaccess      - virtual domain's access file
    ftpusers       - restrict the accounts that can use the 
                     web server,
    ftpgroups      - SITE GROUP and SITE GPASS support,
    ftphosts       - allow or deny usernames access to that 
                     virtual server,
    ftpconversions - customize conversions available in the 
                     virtual domain.

You do not need to put every file in each of the virtual domain 
directories. If you want a set of domains to use the master copy
of a file, for example, the ftpconversions file, then do not include
that file in those virtual domain directories. In that case the
default master copy will be used.
 
.B NOTE!!!: 
The file names must match those listed above. If you misspell any of 
them or name them something else, the server WILL NOT find them and 
the master copy of them will be used instead.

.SH ftpservers file format

There are two fields to each entry.

.B ipaddr/hostname   directory-containing-configuration-files

For example:
    10.196.145.10    /etc/ftpd/ftpaccess.somedomain/
    10.196.145.200   /etc/ftpd/ftpaccess.someotherdomain/
    some.domain      INTERNAL

When an ftp client connects to the server, ftpd tries to match the IP 
address the ftp client connected to with one found in the ftpservers file.  

If a match is found the path to the specified directory containing
the configuration files for that specific domain is returned. The 
ftpd server uses any configuration files in that directory.  

If a match is not found, or an invalid directory path is encountered,
default paths to the configuration files are used.  The use of INTERNAL 
in the example above fails the check for a specific directory and the 
master configuration files will be used. 

Either the actual IP address or a specific hostname can be used to
specify the virtual domain.  It is better to specify the actual IP
of the virtual domain as it reduces the need for a domain lookup
and eliminates DNS security related naming issues.

    10.196.145.20     /etc/ftpd/config/faqs.org/
    ftp.some.domain   /etc/ftpd/config/faqs.org/

As usual, comment lines are depicted with a # sign. Both comment lines 
and blanklines are ignored.
.P
.SH See Also
.BR ftpd(8) ,
.BR ftpaccess(5)
.BR ftplog(5) ,
.BR ftpconversions(5) ,
.BR ftphosts(5)
