.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH ftpshut 8
.SH Name
ftpshut \- close down the ftp servers at a given time
.SH Syntax
.B ftpshut
[
.B \-V
] [
.B \-l
min] [
.B \-d
min]
.I time [ warning-message ... ]
.SH Description
The
.B ftpshut
command
provides an automated shutdown procedure that a superuser
can use to notify ftp users
when the ftp server is shutting down.
.PP
The
.B \-V
option causes the program to display copyright and version information, then
terminate.
.PP
The
.I time
is the time at which
.B ftpshut
will bring the ftp servers down. 
It may be the word
`now',
indicating an immediate shutdown,
or specify a future time in one of two formats:
.I + number
or
.I HHMM.
The first form brings the ftp servers down in
.I number
minutes.
The second brings the ftp servers down at the time of day indicated,
using a 24\-hour clock format.
.PP
Ten minutes before shutdown, or immediately if
.B ftpshut
is timed for less than ten minutes, new ftp
access will be disabled.  This time may be 
adjusted through the -l flag.
.PP
Five minutes before shutdown, or immediately if
.B ftpshut
is timed for less than five minutes, all
current ftp connections will be disconnected.
This time may be adjusted through the -d flag.
.PP
The 
.I [ warning-message ... ]
will be formatted to be 75 characters wide.
.B ftpshut
knows about the actual string length of
the magic cookies.
.PP
Running this command will create a file that the server will use to
determine when to shutdown. Once the shutdown has occured, the server
will continue to refuse connections until this file is removed. The location
of this file is specified by the 
.I shutdown
stanza in the 
.B ftpaccess
file.
.PP
The following magic cookies are available:
.nf
.ta \w'Request        'u
    \fBCookie      Description\fP
      %s      time system is going to shut down
      %r      time new connections will be denied
      %d      time current connections will be dropped
      %C      current working directory
      %E      the maintainer's email address as defined in ftpaccess
      %F      free space in partition of CWD (kbytes)
              [not currently supported on all systems]
      %L      local host name
      %M      maximum allowed number of users in this class
      %N      current number of users in this class
      %R      remote host name
      %T      local time (form Thu Nov 15 17:12:42 1990)
      %U      username given at login time
.fi
.SH Restrictions
You can kill the servers only between now and 23:59, if
you use the absolute time.
.SH See Also
.BR shutdown(1) , 
.BR ftpaccess(5) ,
.BR ftprestart(8)
