.TH myproxy-init 1 "2007-04-24" "NCSA" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-init \- store a credential for later retrieval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-init 
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-init
command uploads a credential to a
.BR myproxy-server (8)
for later retrieval.
In the default mode, 
the command first prompts for the user's Grid pass phrase (if needed),
which is used to create a proxy credential.
The command then prompts for a MyProxy pass phrase, which will be
required to later retrieve the credential.
The MyProxy pass phrase must be entered a second time for confirmation.
A credential with a lifetime of one week (by default) is then
delegated to the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
and stored with the given MyProxy pass phrase.
Proxy credentials with default lifetime of 12 hours can then be
retrieved by 
.BR myproxy-logon (1)
using the MyProxy passphrase.
The default behavior can be overridden by options specified below.
.PP
The
.B myproxy-init
command can also upload a credential to a
.BR myproxy-server (8)
to support credential renewal.
Renewal allows a trusted service (for example, a batch job scheduler)
to obtain a new credential for a user
before the existing credential it has for that user expires.
The 
.B -R
argument to 
.B myproxy-init
configures the credential for renewal by the specified service.
Renewal requires two authentications.
The renewing service must authenticate with its own credentials, matching
the distinquished name specified by the 
.B -R
argument, and must also authenticate with an existing credential that
matches the distinguished name of the stored credential, to retrieve a
new credential.
.PP
A credential may be used either for retrieval or renewal but not both.
If both are desired, upload a different credential for each use, with
a different name using the 
.B -k
option.
.PP
The hostname where the 
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running must be specified by either defining the 
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable or the
.B -s
option.
.PP
By default, 
.B myproxy-init
will create a proxy credential from the user's end-entity credentials
at
.I ~/.globus/usercert.pem
and
.I ~/.globus/userkey.pem
to delegate to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
To specify an alternate location for the source certificate and key
to delegate, use the
.B X509_USER_CERT
and
.B X509_USER_KEY
environment variables.
To use a proxy credential as the source of the delegation,
set both environment variables to the location of the proxy
credential.
To delegate a "legacy globus proxy", set the
.B GT_PROXY_MODE
environment variable to "old".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u, --usage
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Displays version information and exits.
.TP
.BI -s " hostname, " --pshost " hostname"
Specifies the hostname of the myproxy-server.  This option is required
if the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable is not defined.  If specified, this option
overrides the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable.
.TP
.BI -p " port, " --psport " port"
Specifies the TCP port number of the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
Default: 7512
.TP
.B -l, --username
Specifies the MyProxy account under which the credential should be
stored.  By default, the command uses the value of the
.B LOGNAME
environment variable.
Use this option to specify a different account username on the MyProxy
server.
The MyProxy username need not correspond to a real Unix username.
.TP
.BI -c " hours, " --cred_lifetime " hours"
Specifies the lifetime of the credential stored on the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
in hours.
Specify 
.I 0
for the maximum possible lifetime, i.e., the lifetime of
the original credential.
Default: 1 week (168 hours)
.TP
.BI -t " hours, " --proxy_lifetime " hours"
Specifies the maximum lifetime of credentials retrieved from the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
using the stored credential.  Default: 12 hours
.TP
.BI -C " filename, " --certfile " filename"
Specifies  the  filename  of  the source certificate.
.TP
.BI -y " filename, " --keyfile " filename"
Specifies the filename of the source private key.
.TP
.B -d, --dn_as_username
Use the certificate subject (DN) as the default username, instead
of the 
.B LOGNAME 
environment variable.
.TP
.B -a, --allow_anonymous_retrievers
Allow credentials to be retrieved with just pass phrase authentication.
By default, only entities with credentials that match the
.BR myproxy-server.config (5)
default retriever policy may retrieve credentials.
This option allows entities without existing credentials to retrieve a
credential using pass phrase authentication by including "anonymous"
in the set of allowed retrievers.  The
.BR myproxy-server.config (5)
server-wide policy must also allow "anonymous" clients for this option
to have an effect.
.TP
.B -A, --allow_anonymous_renewers
Allow credentials to be renewed by any client.
Any client with a valid credential with a subject name that matches
the stored credential may retrieve a new credential from the MyProxy
repository if this option is given.
Since this effectively defeats the purpose of proxy credential
lifetimes, it is not recommended.  It is included only for sake of
completeness.
.TP
.BI -r " dn, " --retrievable_by " dn"
Allow the specified entity to retrieve credentials.  By default, the
argument will be matched against the common name (CN) of the client
(for example: "Jim Basney").  Specify
.B -x 
before this option to match against the full distinguished name (DN)
(for example: "/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=Jim
Basney") instead.
.TP
.BI -R " dn, " --renewable_by " dn"
Allow the specified entity to renew credentials.
By default, the
argument will be matched against the common name (CN) of the client
(for example: "condorg/modi4.ncsa.uiuc.edu").  Specify
.B -x 
before this option to match against the full distinguished name (DN)
(for example: "/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=condorg/modi4.ncsa.uiuc.edu") instead.
This option implies 
.B -n
since passphrase authentication is not used for credential renewal.
.TP
.BI -Z " dn, " --retrievable_by_cert " dn"
Allow the specified entity to retrieve credentials without a passphrase.
By default, the
argument will be matched against the common name (CN) of the client
(for example: "Jim Basney").  Specify
.B -x 
before this option to match against the full distinguished name (DN)
(for example: "/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=Jim Basney") instead.
This option implies 
.BR -n .
.TP
.B -x, --regex_dn_match
Specifies that the DN used by options 
.B -r
and 
.B -R
will be matched as a regular expression.
.TP
.B -X, --match_cn_only
Specifies that the DN used by options 
.B -r 
and 
.B -R 
will be matched against the Common Name (CN) of the subject.
.TP
.BI -k " name, " --credname " name"
Specifies the credential name.
.TP
.BI -K " description, " --creddesc " description"
Specifies credential description.
.TP
.B -S, --stdin_pass
By default, the command prompts for a passphrase and reads the
passphrase from the active tty.  When running the command
non-interactively, there may be no associated tty.  Specifying this
option tells the command to read passphrases from standard input
without prompts or confirmation.
.TP
.B -L, --local_proxy
In addition to storing a proxy credential on the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
with lifetime set by
.B --cred_lifetime
(default 1 week),
create a local proxy credential with lifetime set by
.B --proxy_lifetime
(default 12 hours).
.TP
.B -n, --no_passphrase
Don't prompt for a credential passphrase.
Store credentials without a credential passphrase, 
to be protected by other methods, such as PAM, SASL, or
certificate-based authentication.
This option is implied by
.B -R
since passphrase authentication is not used for credential renewal.
Note that the 
.BR myproxy-server (8)
always requires some type of authentication for retrieving
credentials, so if you store a credential with no passphrase and other
authentication methods are not configured, the credential will not be
accessible.
.TP
.BI -m " voms, "  --voms " voms"
Include VOMS attributes in stored credential.
The VOMS server name must be provided,
as required by
.BR "voms-proxy-init -voms" .
The
.B voms-proxy-init
command must be installed and configured to use this option.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 on success, >0 on error
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.globus/usercert.pem
Default location of the certificate from which the proxy
credential is created.  Set the
.B X509_USER_CERT
environment variable to override.
.TP
.I ~/.globus/userkey.pem
Default location of the private key from which the proxy credential is
created.  Set the
.B X509_USER_KEY
environment variable to override.
.TP
.I /tmp/myproxy-proxy.<uid>.<pid>
Location of the temporary proxy credential that is delegated to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
It is removed after the delegation is completed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
Specifies the hostname where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -s
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_PORT
Specifies the port where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -p
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_DN
Specifies the distinguished name (DN) of the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
All MyProxy client programs authenticate the server's identity.
By default, MyProxy servers run with host credentials, so the MyProxy
client programs expect the server to have a distinguished name of the
form "host/<fqhn>" or "myproxy/<fqhn>"
(where <fqhn> is the fully-qualified hostname of
the server).  If the server is running with some other DN, you can set
this environment variable to tell the MyProxy clients to accept the
alternative DN.
.TP
.B X509_USER_CERT
Specifies a non-standard location for the certificate from which the
proxy credential is created.
The location may be the path to an end-entity certificate
(ex. 
.IR ~/.globus/usercert.pem ) 
or a proxy (ex. 
.IR /tmp/x509up_u<uid> ).
.TP
.B X509_USER_KEY
Specifies a non-standard location for the private key from which the
proxy credential is created.
The location may be the path to an end-entity certificate
(ex. 
.IR ~/.globus/usercert.pem ) 
or a proxy (ex. 
.IR /tmp/x509up_u<uid> ).
.TP
.B GT_PROXY_MODE
Set to "old" to store a "legacy globus proxy" in the MyProxy
repository.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_TCP_PORT_RANGE
Specifies a range of valid port numbers 
in the form "min,max"
for the client side of the network connection to the server.
By default, the client will bind to any available port.
Use this environment variable to restrict the ports used to
a range allowed by your firewall.
If unset, MyProxy will follow the setting of the
.B GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE
environment variable.
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Baker,
Jim Basney,
Shiva Shankar Chetan,
Patrick Duda,
Jarek Gawor,
Monte Goode,
Daniel Kouril,
Zhenmin Li,
Jason Novotny,
Miroslav Ruda,
Benjamin Temko,
and Von Welch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
