.TH myproxy-admin-adduser 8 "2005-6-8" "NCSA" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-admin-adduser \- add a user or service credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-admin-adduser
[
.I options
]
.P
.B myproxy-admin-addservice
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-admin-adduser
and
.B myproxy-admin-addservice
commands create a new credential for a user or service and load it into the
MyProxy repository.
They are
.BR perl (1)
scripts that run
.B grid-cert-request
(a standard Globus Toolkit program) and
.B grid-ca-sign
(from the Globus Simple CA package)
to create the credential and then run
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8)
to load the credential into the MyProxy repository.
.PP
The command prompts for
the common name to be included in the new certificate
(if the
.B -c
argument is not specified),
the Globus Simple CA key password for signing the certificate,
the MyProxy username
(if the
.B -l
or
.B -d
arguments are not specified), and
the MyProxy passphrase for the credential.
Most of the command-line options for this command
are passed directly to the 
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8)
command.
.PP
The 
.B grid-ca-sign
program is not provided in the MyProxy distribution.
It must be installed separately, from the Globus Simple CA package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.BI -c " cn"
Specifies the Common Name for the new credential
(for example: "Jim Basney").
.TP
.BI -s " dir"
Specifies the location of the credential storage directory.
The directory must be accessible only by the user running the 
.B myproxy-server
process for security reasons.
Default: /var/myproxy or
$GLOBUS_LOCATION/var/myproxy
.TP
.BI -l " username"
Specifies the MyProxy account under which the credential should be
stored.
.TP
.BI -t " hours"
Specifies the maximum lifetime of credentials retrieved from the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
using the stored credential.  Default: 12 hours
.TP
.B -n
Disables passphrase authentication for the stored credential.
If specified, the command will not prompt for a passphrase, 
the credential will not be encrypted by a passphrase in the repository, and
the credential will not be retrievable using passphrase authentication
with
.BR myproxy-logon (1).
This option is used for storing renewable credentials
and is implied by
.BR -R .
.TP
.B -d
Use the certificate subject (DN) as the username.
.TP
.B -a
Allow credentials to be retrieved with just pass phrase authentication.
By default, only entities with credentials that match the
.BR myproxy-server.config (5)
default retriever policy may retrieve credentials.
This option allows entities without existing credentials to retrieve a
credential using pass phrase authentication by including "anonymous"
in the set of allowed retrievers.  The
.BR myproxy-server.config (5)
server-wide policy must also allow "anonymous" clients for this option
to have an effect.
.TP
.B -A
Allow credentials to be renewed by any client.
Any client with a valid credential with a subject name that matches
the stored credential may retrieve a new credential from the MyProxy
repository if this option is given.
Since this effectively defeats the purpose of proxy credential
lifetimes, it is not recommended.  It is included only for sake of
completeness.
.TP
.BI -r " dn"
Allow the specified entity to retrieve credentials.  By default, the
argument will be matched against the common name (CN) of the client
(for example: "Jim Basney").  Specify
.B -x 
before this option to match against the full distinguished name (DN)
(for example: "/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=Jim
Basney") instead.
.TP
.BI -R " dn"
Allow the specified entity to renew credentials.
By default, the
argument will be matched against the common name (CN) of the client
(for example: "condorg/modi4.ncsa.uiuc.edu").  Specify
.B -x 
before this option to match against the full distinguished name (DN)
(for example: "/C=US/O=National Computational Science Alliance/CN=condorg/modi4.ncsa.uiuc.edu") instead.
This option implies 
.B -n
since passphrase authentication is not used for credential renewal.
.TP
.B -x
Specifies that the DN used by options 
.B -r
and 
.B -R
will be matched as a regular expression.
.TP
.B -X
Specifies that the DN used by options 
.B -r 
and 
.B -R 
will be matched against the Common Name (CN) of the subject.
.TP
.BI -k " name"
Specifies the credential name.
.TP
.BI -K " description"
Specifies credential description.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 on success, >0 on error
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Baker,
Jim Basney,
Shiva Shankar Chetan,
Patrick Duda,
Jarek Gawor,
Monte Goode,
Daniel Kouril,
Zhenmin Li,
Jason Novotny,
Miroslav Ruda,
Benjamin Temko,
and Von Welch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
