.TH myproxy-get-trustroots 1 "2009-03-16" "Globus" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-get-trustroots \- manage trustroots from a myproxy-server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
command retrieves the trusted certificates from the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
The CA certificates directory retrieved from the server (if available) are stored in
.IR ~/.globus/certificates .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u, --usage
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Displays version information and exits.
.TP
.BI -s " hostname, " --pshost " hostname"
Specifies the hostname(s) of the myproxy-server(s).  
Multiple hostnames may be specified in a comma-separated list.
This option is required if the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable is not defined.  If specified, this option
overrides the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable.
.TP
.BI -p " port, " --psport " port"
Specifies the TCP port number of the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
Default: 7512
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Only write output messages on error.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
Specifies the hostname(s) where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -s
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_PORT
Specifies the port where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -p
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_DN
Specifies the distinguished name (DN) of the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
All MyProxy client programs authenticate the server's identity.
By default, MyProxy servers run with host credentials, so the MyProxy
client programs expect the server to have a distinguished name of the
form "host/<fqhn>" or "myproxy/<fqhn>"
(where <fqhn> is the fully-qualified hostname of
the server).  If the server is running with some other DN, you can set
this environment variable to tell the MyProxy clients to accept the
alternative DN.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_TCP_PORT_RANGE
Specifies a range of valid port numbers 
in the form "min,max"
for the client side of the network connection to the server.
By default, the client will bind to any available port.
Use this environment variable to restrict the ports used to
a range allowed by your firewall.
If unset, MyProxy will follow the setting of the
.B GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE
environment variable.
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Baker,
Jim Basney,
Shiva Shankar Chetan,
Patrick Duda,
Terry Fleury,
Jarek Gawor,
Monte Goode,
Daniel Kouril,
Zhenmin Li,
Neill Miller,
Jason Novotny,
Miroslav Ruda,
Benjamin Temko,
and Von Welch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
