.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.TH STRSEP 3 "May 15, 1990"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
strsep \- separate strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <string.h>

char *
strsep(char **stringp, char *delim);
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Strsep
locates in the null-terminated string at
.I *stringp
the first occurence of any character in
.I delim
and replaces this with a '\e0',
records the location of the immediate following character in
.IR *stringp ,
then returns the original value of
.IR *stringp .
If no delimiter characters are found,
.B strsep
sets
.I *stringp
to NULL;
if
.I *stringp
is initially NULL,
.B strsep
returns NULL.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following uses
.I strsep
to parse strings containing runs of white space,
making up an argument vector:
.sp
.nf
.RS
char inputstring[100];
char **argv[51], **ap = argv, *p, *val;
.I "/* set up inputstring */"
for (p = inputstring; p != NULL; ) {
    while ((val = strsep(&p, " \et")) != NULL && *val == '\e0');
    *ap++ = val;
}
*ap = 0;
.RE
