.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 WU-FTPD Development Group. 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994 
.\" The Regents of the University of California.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1993, 1994 Washington University in Saint Louis.  Portions Copyright 
.\" (c) 1996, 1998 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 
.\" 1998 Sendmail, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1995, 1996, 1997 Eric 
.\" P. Allman.  Portions Copyright (c) 1989 Massachusetts Institute of 
.\" Technology.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Stan Barber.  Portions 
.\" Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software 
.\" Foundation, Inc.  Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Kent Landfield. 
.\"
.\" Use and distribution of this software and its source code are governed 
.\" by the terms and conditions of the WU-FTPD Software License ("LICENSE"). 
.\"
.\"	$Id$
.\"
.TH WU_FNMATCH 3 "July 28, 1999"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
wu_fnmatch \- match filename or pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "wu_fnmatch.h"

int wu_fnmatch(const char *pattern, const char *string, int flags);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wu_fnmatch
matches patterns according to the rules used by the shell.
It checks the string specified by the
.I string
argument to see if it matches the pattern specified by the
.I pattern
argument.
.PP
The
.I flags
argument modifies the interpretation of
.I pattern
and
.I string.
The value of
.I flags
is the bitwise inclusive OR of any of the following
constants, which are defined in the include file
.IR wu_fnmatch.h .
.TP
FNM_PATHNAME
Slash characters in
.I string
must be explicitly matched by slashes in
.IR pattern .
If this flag is not set, then slashes are treated as regular characters.
.TP
FNM_NOESCAPE
Every occurrence of a backslash (``\e'') followed by a character in
.I pattern
is replaced by that character.
This is done to negate any special meaning for the character.
If this flag is set, then backslashes are treated as regular characters.
.TP
FNM_PERIOD
If this flag is set, then a leading period in
.I string
must be explicity matched by a period in
.IR pattern .
A period is considered leading if it is the first character in
.IR string ,
or if both
.T FNM_PATHNAME
is set and the period immediately follows a slash.
.TP
FNM_LEADING_DIR
If this flag is set, if the entire
.I pattern
has been matched, and there are more characters remaining in the
.IR string ,
and either the last character matched was a slash, or the next character in the
.I string
is a slash, then consider the entire
.I string
matched.
.TP
FNM_CASEFOLD
Normally, upper case and lower case letters are distinct.  This flag causes
them to be considered equal.
.SH RETURNS
If
.I string
matches the pattern specified by
.IR pattern ,
then
.I wu_fnmatch
returns zero.
Otherwise,
.I wu_fnmatch
returns FNM_NOMATCH.
.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1), glob(3), wordexp(3), regexp(3)
.SH BUGS
{} alternatives are not handled.
