.TH myproxy-get-trustroots 1 "2009-12-1" "MyProxy" "MyProxy"
.SH NAME
myproxy-get-trustroots \- fetch trustroots from a myproxy-server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
command retrieves the trusted certificates from the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
and stores them
in the location specified by the
.B X509_CERT_DIR
environment variable if set or
.I /etc/grid-security/certificates
if running as root or
.I ~/.globus/certificates
if running as non-root.
.P
An example cron job for running
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
periodically to keep the
.B X509_CERT_DIR 
up-to-date is provided at
.IR $GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy-get-trustroots.cron .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b, --bootstrap
Unless this option is specified, then if the
.B X509_CERT_DIR 
exists and the CA that signed the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
certificate is not trusted, 
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
will fail with an error,
to protect against man-in-the-middle attacks.
If, however, this option is specified,
.B myproxy-get-trustroots
will accept the CA to bootstrap trust.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -u, --usage
Displays command usage text and exits.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Displays version information and exits.
.TP
.BI -s " hostname[:port], " --pshost " hostname[:port]"
Specifies the hostname(s) of the myproxy-server(s).
Multiple hostnames, each hostname optionally followed by a ':' and port number,
may be specified in a comma-separated list.
This option is required if the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable is not defined.  If specified, this option
overrides the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
environment variable. If a port number is specified with a hostname, it will
override the -p option as well as the
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_PORT
environment variable for that host.
.TP
.BI -p " port, " --psport " port"
Specifies the TCP port number of the
.BR myproxy-server (8).
Default: 7512
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Only write output messages on error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GLOBUS_GSSAPI_NAME_COMPATIBILITY
This client will, by default, perform a reverse-DNS lookup to determine
the FQHN (Fully Qualified Host Name) to use in verifying the identity
of the server by checking the FQHN against the CN in server's certificate.
Setting this variable to
.B STRICT_RFC2818
will cause the reverse-DNS lookup to NOT be performed
and the user-specified name to be used instead.
This variable setting will be ignored if
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_DN
(described later) is set.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER
Specifies the hostname(s) where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running. Multiple hostnames can be specified in a comma separated list with
each hostname optionally followed by a ':' and port number.  This environment
variable can be used in place of the
.B -s
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_PORT
Specifies the port where the
.BR myproxy-server (8)
is running.  This environment variable can be used in place of the 
.B -p
option.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_SERVER_DN
Specifies the distinguished name (DN) of the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
All MyProxy client programs authenticate the server's identity.
By default, MyProxy servers run with host credentials, so the MyProxy
client programs expect the server to have a distinguished name with
"/CN=host/<fqhn>" or "/CN=myproxy/<fqhn>" or "/CN=<fqhn>"
(where <fqhn> is the fully-qualified hostname of
the server).  If the server is running with some other DN, you can set
this environment variable to tell the MyProxy clients to accept the
alternative DN. Also see
.B GLOBUS_GSSAPI_NAME_COMPATIBILITY
above.
.TP
.B MYPROXY_TCP_PORT_RANGE
Specifies a range of valid port numbers 
in the form "min,max"
for the client side of the network connection to the server.
By default, the client will bind to any available port.
Use this environment variable to restrict the ports used to
a range allowed by your firewall.
If unset, MyProxy will follow the setting of the
.B GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE
environment variable.
.TP
.B X509_USER_CERT
Specifies a non-standard location for the certificate to be used for
authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_USER_KEY
Specifies a non-standard location for the private key to be used for
authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
Specifies a non-standard location for the proxy credential to be used
for authentication to the 
.BR myproxy-server (8).
.TP
.B X509_CERT_DIR
Specifies a non-standard location for the CA certificates directory.
.SH AUTHORS
See 
.B http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/about
for the list of MyProxy authors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR myproxy-change-pass-phrase (1),
.BR myproxy-destroy (1),
.BR myproxy-info (1),
.BR myproxy-init (1),
.BR myproxy-logon (1),
.BR myproxy-retrieve (1),
.BR myproxy-server.config (5),
.BR myproxy-store (1),
.BR myproxy-admin-adduser (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-change-pass (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-load-credential (8),
.BR myproxy-admin-query (8),
.BR myproxy-server (8)
